DC (DataCollect) Parameters
===========================

DC parameters are the parameters that are required for every vibrothermographic
simulation. They are defined in the ``.xlg`` and ``.xlp`` files. The examples
provided here are from the ``vibrosim_demo3`` example.

dest
-------
Where to save the generated output. ::

    <dc:dest xlink:type="simple" xlink:href="vibrosim_demo3_output/"/>

measident
---------
Used as a filename prefix for the various output files generated. It should be
redefined in submeasurements if they are being used.::

    <dc:measident>meas1</dc:measident> 

amplitude
---------
``amplitude`` defines the displacement amplitude of the transducer. A
calibration must be done to relate the voltage in the electronics to the
displacement of the transducer as a function of frequency. A constant 10
micron/Volt calibration file is included in VibroSim COMSOL.::

    <dc:amplitude dcv:units="Volts">3</dc:amplitude>

friction_coefficient
--------------------
Friction coefficient of the crack surface. Used to calculate the heat generated by the crack. ::

    <dc:friction_coefficient>.0661</dc:friction_coefficient>

msqrtR
------
Crack heating in mode I motion can be attributed to angled friction, where
angled surfaces rub against each other while the crack as a whole opens and
closes cleanly. The ``msqrtR`` is product of the asperity density and the
typical asperity radius. ::

    <dc:msqrtR dcv:units="m^-1.5">3.14e6</dc:msqrtR>

crack_model_shear_factor
------------------------
Sensitivity factor for shear vs normal heating. This was included in the model just in case empirical observation warranted it. Based on our observations, heating due to normal vibration is on the same order as heating due to the same magnitude of shear vibration. ::

    <dc:crack_model_shear_factor>1.0</dc:crack_model_shear_factor> 

staticload_mount
----------------
Combined static load on both mounts. ::

    <dc:staticload_mount dcv:units="N">0</dc:staticload_mount> 

staticload
----------
Static bending opening load on crack. ::

    <dc:staticload dcv:units="Pascals">0</dc:staticload> 

xducerforce
-----------
Force of with which the transducer is pressed into the specimen. Used in model
creation when the couplant is attached to the model. Only used in the
``solidmech_static`` study. ::

    <dc:xducerforce dcv:units="Newtons">0</dc:xducerforce>

tortuosity
----------
The growth mechanisms of a fatigue crack usually result in a rough crack
surface. The roughness is further exaggerated for intergranular crack growth
wherein the crack growth path can deviate from the growth plane and follow the
grain boundaries of several grains until the macroscopic applied load
(typically mode-I loading) coerces the local crack trajectory to follow the
symmetric growth plane. This process results in a fatigue crack, with planar
macroscopic trajectory, but with a very rough and tortuous local trajectory.

Crack tortuosity is quantified as the standard deviation of a distribution of
angles of node points on the crack with taken with respect to a line connecting
the end points of the crack. ::

    <dc:tortuosity dcv:units="degrees">30.5</dc:tortuosity>

numdraws
--------
Crack tortuosity is a statistical distribution, this parameter defines how many
draws to take at each position along the crack for calculating the crack
heating. ::

    <dc:numdraws>100</dc:numdraws>

spcmaterial
-----------
String defining the specimen material. Needs to be recognizable by COMSOL.::

    <dc:spcmaterial>Ti 6-4</dc:spcmaterial>

YoungsModulus
-------------
Youngs modulus of the specimen material. ::

    <dc:YoungsModulus dcv:units="Pascals">117.9e9</dc:YoungsModulus>

YieldStrength
-------------
Yield strength of the specimen material. ::

    <dc:YieldStrength dcv:units="Pascals">944.58e6</dc:YieldStrength>

PoissonsRatio
-------------
Poissons ratio of the specimen material. ::

    <dc:PoissonsRatio>0.342</dc:PoissonsRatio>

Density
-------
Density of the specimen material. ::

    <dc:Density dcv:units="kg/m^3">4430</dc:Density>

spcThermalConductivity
----------------------
Thermal conductivity of the specimen material. ::

    <dc:spcThermalConductivity dcv:units="W/m/K">6.7</dc:spcThermalConductivity>

spcSpecificHeatCapacity
-----------------------
Specific heat capacity of the specimen material. ::

    <dc:spcSpecificHeatCapacity dcv:units="J/kg/K">526.3</dc:spcSpecificHeatCapacity>

simulationcameranetd
--------------------
Magnitude of simulated camera noise: noise equivalent temperature difference (NETD). ::

    <dc:simulationcameranetd dcv:units="K">.022</dc:simulationcameranetd> 
    
spcrayleighdamping_alpha
------------------------
Rayleigh damping coefficient alpha. Rayleigh damping is visous damping that is
proportional to the mass and stiffness matrices of the specimen. Alpha is the
coefficient of the mass matrix in the equation. Conceptually, increasing alpha
will increase the damping in the low frequencies. ::

    <dc:spcrayleighdamping_alpha dcv:units="s^-1">2</dc:spcrayleighdamping_alpha>

spcrayleighdamping_beta
-----------------------
Rayleigh damping coefficient alpha. Rayleigh damping is visous damping that is
proportional to the mass and stiffness matrices of the specimen. Beta is the
coefficient of the stiffness matrix in the equation. Conceptually, increasing beta 
will increase the damping in the high frequencies. ::

    <dc:spcrayleighdamping_beta dcv:units="s">5e-9</dc:spcrayleighdamping_beta>

spcviscousdamping
-----------------
Velocity dependent damping of the motion in the specimen. ::

    <dc:spcviscousdamping dcv:units="N*s"> xxxx </dc:spcviscousdamping>
    
crack_model_normal
------------------
Which crack closure model to use for normal loading.
``ModeI_throughcrack_CODformula`` or
``Tada_ModeI_CircularCrack_along_midline``. ::

    <dc:crack_model_normal>Tada_ModeI_CircularCrack_along_midline</dc:crack_model_normal>

crack_model_shear
-----------------
Which stick/slip model to use for shear loading.
``Fabrikant_ModeII_CircularCrack_along_midline``,
``ModeII_throughcrack_CSDformula``, or ``ModeIII_throughcrack_CSDformula``. ::

    <dc:crack_model_shear>Fabrikant_ModeII_CircularCrack_along_midline</dc:crack_model_shear>

crack_shearstress_axis
----------------------
Axis on which to calculate the shear stress. This can be either ``major``
(representing stress exhibited in mode II crack displacment) or ``minor``
(representing stress exhibited in mode III crack displacement). ::

    <dc:crack_shearstress_axis>major</dc:crack_shearstress_axis> 

crack_type_side1
----------------
Crack type of crack side number one. This can be either ``halfthrough``, representing a through thickness crack, or ``quarterpenny``, representing a crack that is elliptical in shape going into the surface of the specimen. ::

    <dc:crack_type_side1>quarterpenny</dc:crack_type_side1>

crack_type_side2
----------------
Crack type of crack side number two. This can be either ``halfthrough``, representing a through thickness crack, or ``quarterpenny``, representing a crack that is elliptical in shape going into the surface of the specimen. ::

    <dc:crack_type_side2>quarterpenny</dc:crack_type_side2>

thickness
---------
Thickness of the material at the through crack. The geometry in COMSOL is not
so well integrated that this will not be populated automatically. This should
be an average thickness if thickness is not constant across the crack. ::

    <dc:thickness dcv:units="meters">1e-3</dc:thickness>

reff_side1
----------
``reff_side1``, ``seff_side1``, ``reff_side2``, ``seff_side2`` are how the
closure state of the crack is specified: by radius of closure point at
different external stress levels.  These are interpreted in the context of the
selected  crack model_normal. ::

    <dc:reff_side1 dcv:units="m" dcv:arraystorageorder="C"><dcv:arrayshape>9</dcv:arrayshape><dcv:arraydata>.5e-3 .7e-3 .9e-3 1.05e-3 1.2e-3 1.33e-3 1.45e-3 1.56e-3 1.66e-3</dcv:arraydata></dc:reff_side1>

seff_side1
----------
``reff_side1``, ``seff_side1``, ``reff_side2``, ``seff_side2`` are how the
closure state of the crack is specified: by radius of closure point at
different external stress levels.  These are interpreted in the context of the
selected  crack model_normal. ::

    <dc:seff_side1 dcv:units="Pa" dcv:arraystorageorder="C"><dcv:arrayshape>9</dcv:arrayshape><dcv:arraydata>0.0 50e6 100e6 150e6 200e6 250e6 300e6 350e6 400e6</dcv:arraydata></dc:seff_side1>

reff_side2
----------
``reff_side1``, ``seff_side1``, ``reff_side2``, ``seff_side2`` are how the
closure state of the crack is specified: by radius of closure point at
different external stress levels.  These are interpreted in the context of the
selected  crack model_normal. ::

    <dc:reff_side2 dcv:units="m" dcv:arraystorageorder="C"><dcv:arrayshape>9</dcv:arrayshape><dcv:arraydata> .5e-3 .7e-3 .9e-3 1.05e-3 1.2e-3 1.33e-3 1.45e-3 1.56e-3 1.66e-3</dcv:arraydata></dc:reff_side2>

seff_side2
----------
``reff_side1``, ``seff_side1``, ``reff_side2``, ``seff_side2`` are how the
closure state of the crack is specified: by radius of closure point at
different external stress levels.  These are interpreted in the context of the
selected  crack model_normal. ::

    <dc:seff_side2 dcv:units="Pa" dcv:arraystorageorder="C"><dcv:arrayshape>9</dcv:arrayshape><dcv:arraydata> 0.0 50e6 100e6 150e6 200e6 250e6 300e6 350e6 400e6</dcv:arraydata></dc:seff_side2>

exc_t0
------
Start of envelope ramp-up. ::

    <dc:exc_t0 dcv:units="s">0.0</dc:exc_t0>  

exc_t1
------
End of enelope ramp-up. ::

    <dc:exc_t1 dcv:units="s">0.02</dc:exc_t1>

exc_t2
------
Start of envelope ramp-down ::

    <dc:exc_t2 dcv:units="s">0.98</dc:exc_t2>

exc_t3
------
End of envelope ramp-down. ::

    <dc:exc_t3 dcv:units="s">1.00</dc:exc_t3> 

exc_t4
------
End of vibration calculation. ::

    <dc:exc_t4 dcv:units="s">1.00</dc:exc_t4>
